// Student name: RUIFENG LUO
// Student number:686141

In the original model in assignment 1a, I have found several problems below:
-    Deadlock. 
     As a number of pilots acquired tugs are ready for docking, there may not have 
     enough tugs for ships in berth to undocking. In this case, pilots holding docking 
     tugs are waiting for the berth. However, those ships in the berth are waiting for 
     the undocking tugs since not enough tugs can be used for undocking and pilots 
     holding most of the tugs. This caused deadlock.
-    Non-deterministic process.
     In the process of releasing ship to depart wait zone and consumer depart those 
     ships in the depart wait zone, there are non-deterministic processes. Sometimes 
     consumer departs ships in depart wait zone before pilots release ships to the 
     depart wait zone. This problem is totally depending on the timing in java.

As I implement the model from Assignment 1a in FSP, non-deterministic process is simply 
fixed by converting to FSP. The reason I believe is that the FSP model only consider 
the legal actions of the system, regardless of timing in the system. Furthermore, FSP 
allows both non-deterministic choice and deterministic choice to implement those 
processes. In this case, I implemented those actions in the pilot component, in which 
actions are executed in sequence and also in order. This prevented those actions from
non-deterministic.
However, converting to the FSP model won’t fix the problem of deadlock. And also, LTSA 
won’t consider this as deadlock since other actions are operating normally.The solution I 
made in the modified model is to preserve enough tugs for ships in berth undocking. If 
there are no ships in the berth, there is no need to preserve tugs. Moreover, once ships 
dock in the berth and release docking tugs, I made guards to ensure pilot outside of 
berth will not acquire those tugs for ships undocking. By doing so, those undocking tugs
for the ships in berth are locked and will be unlocked once ships in berth release to 
depart wait zone.
A trade-off in the modified model compared to the original model is that the performance 
of the spaceport operating system decreased. This is because some tugs are locked, and 
pilots cannot acquire those tugs until tugs are unlocked. The trade-off only affects 
the process as a number of ships are docked in the berth. Before ships in berth release 
docking tugs, pilots cannot acquire tugs to dock in the berth. Comparing to the original 
model, pilots can acquire tugs to dock in the berth, and those ships undocking in berth 
could rely on tugs release by other ships in the berth. The solution I made slow down 
the process of the system a little bit.
